New content for automatic clients registration (#1471)
uyuni-project/uyuni-docs: modules/client-configuration/pages/automatic-client-registration.adoc

[[automatic-client-registration]]

> = Automatic Registration of Clients Cretaed by Terraform

Reviewer: ```suggestion
= Automatic Registration of Clients Created by Terraform
```

New clients created by Terraform can be automatically registered to {productname}.

> 
> This can be achieved in two ways:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Registration can be achieved in two ways:
```

> * cloud-init based registration

Reviewer: is this a command?  If yes:
```suggestion
* [command]``cloud-init`` based registration
```
if it is a concept, better use human understandable words `;)`

> {productname} supports two ways of registering new virtual machines created by Terraform:

Reviewer 2: I would not say product support two ways, since it's not complitly correct. Product only provides the botstrap script.
I would say something like "This can be archived in two different ways..."

Author: Ok, thanks.

> * remote execution provisioner based regsitration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* remote execution provisioner based registration
```

[[cloud-init-based-client-registration]]
== cloud-init based client registration

Registering by leveraging cloud-init is the preferred way of automatic registering of the newly created virtual machines. 

> This solution avoids configuring SSH connection to the host.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This solution avoids configuring an SSH connection to the host.
```

> It can also be used regardless of the tool used for clients creation. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It can also be used regardless of the tool used for client creation.
```

> It can be used regardless of the tool used for clients creation. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It can also be used regardless of the tool used for clients creation. 
```

Author: Ok, done.

> User can pass the set of user data when deploying the image with Terraform, in order to create the image instance.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
User can pass the set of user data when deploying the image with Terraform, in order to automatically register the machine to {productname}.
```

Reviewer: +1

> [path]``user_data`` is run only once at bootstrap, and only the first time the instance is started. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[path]``user_data`` is run only once at bootstrap, and only the first time the machine is started. 
```

Author: OK, thanks.

Before using cloud-init to register clients, the user must configure:

* Bootstrap script. See xref:client-configuration:registration-bootstrap.adoc[]
* Activation keys. See xref:client-configuration:activation-keys.adoc[]

> This command will download the bootstrap script and register the new machine when it is created:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This command will download the bootstrap script and register the new machine when it is created and should be added to the cloud-init configuration:
```

Reviewer: +1

----
curl -s http://hub-server.tf.local/pub/bootstrap/bootstrap-default.sh | bash -s
----

[NOTE]
====

> Anytime [path]``user_data`` is updated to change the provisioning, Terraform will destroy and then recreate the machines with new IP etc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Anytime [path]``user_data`` is updated to change the provisioning, Terraform will destroy and then recreate the machines with a new IP, etc.
```

====

For more information about cloud-init on AWS, see:  
. https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/template/latest/docs/data-sources/cloudinit_config

For a cloud-init example, see:  
. https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/cloudinit/latest/docs/data-sources/cloudinit_config#example-usage

[[remote-exec-provisioner-based-client-registration]]
== remote-exec provisioner based registration

The second solution for automatic registering of the  newly created public cloud uses Terraform's remote-exec provisioner.

remote-exec provisioner interacts with the newly created machines. 

> It has access to open and SSH connections, and can run single or batch commands.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It opens an SSH connection and can run commands on that machine.
```

[IMPORTANT]
====
When using remote-exec provisioner to register clients, the user must ensure that the machine running Terraform will have access to the new virtual machine after its creation.
====

The remaining requirements are the same as when using <<cloud-init-based-client-registration>> 

* Bootstrap script. See xref:client-configuration:registration-bootstrap.adoc[]
* Activation keys. See xref:client-configuration:activation-keys.adoc[]

> This command will download the bootstrap script and register the new machine when it is created:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This command will download the bootstrap script and register the new machine when it is created, and should be defined as the remote command to run:
```

Author: Done, thanks.

> This command will download the bootstrap script and register the new machine when it is created, , and should be defined as the remote command to run:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This command will download the bootstrap script and register the new machine when it is created.
It should be defined as the remote command to run:
```
